READme
# Project 1 
## by Lily Keiderling and Tookie Wilson
### Overview

There are 3 codes that must be run in order for all aspects of the project to be completed: Project Accelerometer.py, realworld.data.py, and simulated.data.py.

## The Microbit Accelerometer Code 

Project Accelerometer.py generates the real world set of pendulum data using a microbit and a lego pendulum. The data is then saved in a file to be analyzed by the realworld.data.py script. 

### How to Use Project Accelerometer.py
1. Open up BLANK.py in mu-editor
2. Connect the microbit to the computer with the USB port
3. Flash the code onto the microbit
4. A butterfly will be displayed once the code is ready to be run
5. Disconnect the microbit from the computer, plug it in to its batter pack, and attach it to the pendulum.
6. Press button A to begin recording the pendulum data and a happy face will be displayed
7. When the program concludes, a target will be displayed
8. The data will be stored in a file called pendulum_data_*number*.txt where the number is a random number between 1 and 999 so as not to overwrite each data file
9. Open files and drag the data file into your mu_code folder
10. Open the mu_code folder and drag the data file onto your desktop so when you use spyder to parse it, it can easily find the file
11. Repeat for 5 different pendulum lengths

## The Real World Data Code

The realworld.data.py script parses through the accelerometer code. It then analyzes the data to find the average period of the angular position, and lastly, plots the unfiltered angular position (angle graph) and filtered angular position (filtered angle) graphs.

#### How to Use realworld.data.py
1. Open spyder
2. In line 16, it asks for the file you would like to open, where the 580 is you can either keep that file or try 120. Both are very good sets of data for 2 different pendulum lengths (0.254m and 0.207m, respectively).
3. Press run.

The first section of code imports all the libraries that were used.
The parsing section read the file generated by Project Accelerometer.py and puts the x acceleration, y acceleration, z acceleration, and angle into their own lists.
The analysis-of-real-world-data section firstly creates a time array. It then filters the noisy angle data (which is the angular position). Once the data is cleaned up, a built in function called sig.find_peaks finds the peaks of the filtered data. The calculating_avg_period function takes an input of "pks" so that the same function works for both the real world and simulated data. For the simulated data, line 71 requires 'pks" be angle_pks.This function find the time correlating to each of the peaks that are at least 0.5 away from each other and adds it to a list. The period between each peak is then calculated and an average of those periods is then calculated.
The plotting-the-data section plots both the unfiltered angles versus time and the filtered angle versus time on their own graphs. The peaks on the filtered data set are marked with a blue dot.

## The Simulated Data Code

The simulated.data.py script takes intial conditions generated by the user and generates an angular position graph, an angular velocity graph, and an angular acceleration graph. It then analyzes the angular position data to find the average period. At the end of the script, is the code for graphing the length of pendulum versus period data for both the real world and simulated data.

### How to Use simulated.data.py

1. Press run.
2. The user is prompted to input the length of the pendulum they want to simulate. The number should be in meters.
3. After typing the length, press return and let the code finish running.

The first section of code imports all the libraries that were used.
The creating-the-simulated-data section takes intial conditions and creates a list for each angular position, angular velocity, and angular acceleration.
The analysis-of-simulated-data section firstly turns the pos list into an array. It then calls a built-in function called sig.find_peaks to find the peaks of the angular position data. The calculating_avg_period function takes an input of "pks" so that the same function works for both the real world and simulated data. For the simulated data, line 75 requires 'pks" be pos_pks. This function find the time correlating to each of the peaks that are at least 0.5 away from each other and adds it to a list. The period between each peak is then calculated and an average of those periods is then calculated.
The plotting-the-data section plots angular position, angular velocity, and angular acceleration on their own graphs. The peaks on the angular position are marked with a blue dot.
The plotting-the-length-vs-period section takes all the average periods from both the simulated and real world data and plots them on a graph. The graph should appear to be somewhat logistical, however given the slight variations in pendulum length, the logistical growth is not easy to see.

